---
sidebar: auto
---

# FAQ

Answers to your Grey Software Questions!

## How does Grey Software make money?

_Current_

We currently offer an Apprentice program where we teach students how to
contribute to our open source software.

_Future_

We’ve published our analytics openly at org.grey.software/stats, and we’re
looking to partner with advertisers to run ethical ads on our public apps.

We’re setting up software sales using Cryptolens, which would allow users to
purchase premium licenses to Grey Software’s apps and use it ad-free.

We’re looking into startup funding for our projects like Material Math and
Toonin, which have the potential to be useful deployed software.

We collect donations from individuals who believe in our mission through Paypal
and Github Sponsors.

## Does open source software kill competition?

Open sourcing your software doesn’t prevent competitors from creating software
similar in functionality but different in implementation.

## How do I join Grey Software?

### Join our community

We host an active community on Discord, where we community.grey.software.

You can also join as an apprentice on a project, where you get to collaborate
with a mentor as a software engineer, designer, or product.

## Is Grey Software only for Software Engineers?

Not at all!

Software engineers write the code behind Grey Software’s apps, but designers,
product owners, and researchers are integral to our software development
process.

## How can I volunteer for Grey Software?

Join community.grey.software and select the volunteer role!

You'll receive a form that will guide you through the next steps, and after
contributing to the org, you'll be able to generate a PDF/HTML report of your
contributions at grey.software/report-card

## Why is Grey Software a not-for-profit organization?

Grey Software was founded around a mission to build the software ecosystem of
the future.

To ensure that the organization’s future revenues went towards our mission
instead of the pockets of shareholders, we founded the organization as a
not-for-profit.

## What is Grey Software’s vision?

Grey Software envisions an open source future where mentors and students build
free software together.

## How are Grey Software’s products connected to its students?

Our students learn software development by collaborating with the creators of
the products they're working on.

## How is Grey Software different from other educational sites, such as Udemy, Udacity, and Coursera?

These websites host educational content that many rely on, including Grey
Software's mentors and students.

Our mentors teach by collaborating with individuals or small groups on
real-world projects using the same open-source technologies that are used in the
industry.

## How does Grey Software deliver its educational content?

Grey Software hosts students who collaborate with mentors to build our open
-source products in a real-world software development environment with mentors.

Since we create our apps and teach students how to develop them simultaneously,
it’s hard to define a structured curriculum and predict learning outcomes.

We therefore propose that each project have creation teams and education teams.

The creation team evolves our products using the latest, most productive
technologies and trends in software development.

The education team turns our products into projects that students can learn
from. This team abstracts away certain software complexities, allowing students
to gradually make their way to working with production code.

Mentors collaborate with apprentices live over video call and VS Code Live
Share.

## Are Grey Software’s apps free?

Grey Software develops software that protects human freedoms. While most of our
apps are free, we may still offer paid software in the future. Free software
refers to 'freedom', not necessarily 'gratis'.

## How can I sign up?

Create a Github account. Pick a project you’re interested in from
org.grey.software/projects

## What level of coding experience do I need in order to participate?

Most of Grey Software’s apps are on the web.

## How are students matched to projects?

## What is the expected time commitment per week?

We’ll discuss your time commitment

## Does Grey Software accept High School, Bootcamp, Homeschooled, or other non traditional students?
